readme.md, before:

A collection of slides, URLs mentioned in presentations, Birds in a Feather Sessions, and Lightning talks at SOTM-US 2014.

The github repo for this is at: [https://github.com/skorasaurus/sotmus2014/](https://github.com/skorasaurus/sotmus2014/)  Corrections and additions welcome. 



Videos available at: [SOTM website](http://stateofthemap.us/schedule/)

---


Make Maps Better, Together: Collaborative Mapping the Github Way - Mike Skalnik


[slides](https://speakerdeck.com/skalnik/make-maps-better-together)

[Ben Balter's list of DC bars w/ wifi (mentioned in skalnik's talk)](https://github.com/benbalter/dc-wifi-social)


---

Open Tools and Data for the News - Ken Schwencke


[Slides](lat.ms/sotm2014)

[LA Times Github repo](github.com/datadesk)

[Blog Post from CIR on the tools they used to map the US/Mexico border](http://cironline.org/blog/post/surprising-tools-cir-used-map-us-mexico-border-fence-6255)

[LA times' Map Style for Tilemill](https://github.com/datadesk/osm-quiet-la)


[Import Proposal for LA County Addresses and Buildings](http://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Import/Catalogue/Los_Angeles_County_Buildings)


---

Where are US Mappers  - Dennis Zielstra


[HDYC - Find out where a OSM user edits](http://hdyc.neis-one.org/)

---

Slide: Auto-drawing geometry to remove the pains of map tracing - Paul Mach


[Slides, PDF](https://www.dropbox.com/s/iuqgvcjvnt8ao2f/SOTMUS-2014%20-%20Slide%20Slides.pdf)


[Strava Labs](http://labs.strava.com/slide/)

---

Introduction to OpenStreetMap - Mele Sax-Barnett


[Slides, PDF](http://pdxmele.com/intro-osm/OSM_intro_workshop.pdf)

---

Implementing Change in OpenStreetMap - John Firebaugh


[NodeConfEU 2013 - Building Compassionate Communities in Tech](http://www.joyent.com/developers/videos/nodeconfeu-2013-building-compassionate-communities-in-tech)

[slides](https://speakerdeck.com/jfirebaugh/implementing-change-in-openstreetmap), [notes](https://gist.github.com/jfirebaugh/10553476)

[Notes/commentry on presentation from Heather Leeson](http://textontechs.com/2014/04/state-of-the-map-us-building-community/)

---

Engaging the OSM Community: A NYC Government Perspective - Colin Reilly


[Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1J3NkOv0PRGPBqdLNbB6JZd8qM1Yda_YlUiCvvxqpVtI/edit#slide=id.p)

[NYC Local Law 11](http://www.nyc.gov/html/doitt/html/open/local_law_11_2012.shtml)


---

Meeting in Person: why, How, and What's Next - Kathleen Danielson 

[Slides](https://speakerdeck.com/kathleenld/meeting-in-person-why-how-and-whats-next)

---

Simulating Cities with OpenStreetMap and OpenTripPlanner Analysis - Kevin Webb


[Slides](https://www.dropbox.com/s/ojb4wa28rqv2of7/sotm_modeling.pdf)

----

CartoDrop: secure mapping and reporting over Tor - Nick Dorion


[Slides](http://www.slideshare.net/NicholasDoiron/cartodrop-secure-mapping-and-reporting-over-tor)

---


Start your own maptime! - Lyzi Diamond


[Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Uge9O_R_T8pFbN4szxQ4iBQxpskeWT183IBvqtnt1DE/edit#slide=id.p15)

---

[HOT's BOF (birds of a feather) session](https://hackpad.com/HOT-BOF-SotM-US-CnlzFvBzbVT)


---


Birds of a Feather - Exporting OSM into GIS - Andrew Wiseman

[Notes](https://gist.github.com/aawiseman/10679009)

[A. Wiseman's blog post on converting OSM Data into Shapefiles using QGIS and JOSM](http://everygoodusernameistaken.tumblr.com/post/52805666711/exporting-openstreetmap-roads-to-shapefile)

---



Capturing Local Knowledge of Urban Food Resources Using OSM - Sterling Quinn


[Philly Fresh Food Map](http://www.geovista.psu.edu/phillyfood/)

---

US Bicycle Route System Mapping - Steve All 

[National Corridor Plan of US Bicycle Routes](http://www.adventurecycling.org/routes-and-maps/us-bicycle-route-system/national-corridor-plan/)

---

Open Data for Resilience: OSM for Disaster Risk Management - John Crowley 


[Open Data for Resilience Initiative, the Field Guide](https://www.gfdrr.org/ODRIFG)

[Open Data for Resilience Initiative by WorldBank, About](https://www.gfdrr.org/opendri)


---


Designing OpenStreetMap - Nicki Dlugash


[slides, pdf](http://nickidlugash.com/DesigningOSM.pdf)

[notes, pdf](http://nickidlugash.com/DesigningOSM-notes.pdf)

---

Processing OpenStreetMap into Vector Tiles - Dane Springmeyer 

[slides, pdf](https://www.dropbox.com/s/9b15snlzu3r0z5o/sotm-us-2014-dc-springmeyer.pdf)

---

Optimizing the osm2pgsql/mapnik toolchain - Paul Norman

[slides, pdf](http://www.paulnorman.ca/files/osm2pgsql-performance.pdf)

---

Inside the Eye of a HOT Activiation - Dale Kunce 

[slides](http://americanredcross.github.io/presentations/SOTMUS_2014/)

---

Geo Tools For First Responders - Richard Welty

[slides](http://www.slideshare.net/nfgusedautoparts/geo-tools-for-first-responders-sotm-us-2014)

[Full Slides](http://www.slideshare.net/nfgusedautoparts/geo-tools-for-first-responders-sotm-us-2014-full-version)

---

Running Your Own Rendering Infrastructure - Seth Fitzsimmons

[slides](https://speakerdeck.com/mojodna/running-your-own-rendering-infrastructure)

---

I imported Chicago - Ian Dees 


[user testing on osm.org and iD](http://www.smartchicagocollaborative.org/cutgroup-6-openstreetmap-editor/)

---

Addresses, One County at a Time - Toby Murray 

[slides, pdf](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/1475575/OSM/Addresses_one_county_at_a_time.pdf)

----

Reviews/Recaps:


[benbhsu's notes/diary from Day One at SOTMUS2014](http://www.openstreetmap.org/user/benbhsu/diary/21645)


[benbhsu's notes/diary from Day Two at SOTMUS2014](http://www.openstreetmap.org/user/benbhsu/diary/21653)


[Peter Batty's review of another great State of the Map conference](http://geothought.blogspot.fr/2014/04/report-on-another-great-state-of-map.html)

Commit message:

added recaps from @petersongis and @jacquestardie + paper mentioned in sieber's talk

readme.md, after:

A collection of slides, URLs mentioned in presentations, Birds in a Feather Sessions, and Lightning talks at SOTM-US 2014.

The github repo for this is at: [https://github.com/skorasaurus/sotmus2014/](https://github.com/skorasaurus/sotmus2014/)  Corrections and additions welcome. 



Videos available at: [SOTM website](http://stateofthemap.us/schedule/)

---


Make Maps Better, Together: Collaborative Mapping the Github Way - Mike Skalnik


[slides](https://speakerdeck.com/skalnik/make-maps-better-together)

[Ben Balter's list of DC bars w/ wifi (mentioned in skalnik's talk)](https://github.com/benbalter/dc-wifi-social)


---

Open Tools and Data for the News - Ken Schwencke


[Slides](lat.ms/sotm2014)

[LA Times Github repo](github.com/datadesk)

[Blog Post from CIR on the tools they used to map the US/Mexico border](http://cironline.org/blog/post/surprising-tools-cir-used-map-us-mexico-border-fence-6255)

[LA times' Map Style for Tilemill](https://github.com/datadesk/osm-quiet-la)


[Import Proposal for LA County Addresses and Buildings](http://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Import/Catalogue/Los_Angeles_County_Buildings)


---

Where are US Mappers  - Dennis Zielstra


[HDYC - Find out where a OSM user edits](http://hdyc.neis-one.org/)

---

Slide: Auto-drawing geometry to remove the pains of map tracing - Paul Mach


[Slides, PDF](https://www.dropbox.com/s/iuqgvcjvnt8ao2f/SOTMUS-2014%20-%20Slide%20Slides.pdf)


[Strava Labs](http://labs.strava.com/slide/)

---

Introduction to OpenStreetMap - Mele Sax-Barnett


[Slides, PDF](http://pdxmele.com/intro-osm/OSM_intro_workshop.pdf)

---

Implementing Change in OpenStreetMap - John Firebaugh


[NodeConfEU 2013 - Building Compassionate Communities in Tech](http://www.joyent.com/developers/videos/nodeconfeu-2013-building-compassionate-communities-in-tech)

[slides](https://speakerdeck.com/jfirebaugh/implementing-change-in-openstreetmap), [notes](https://gist.github.com/jfirebaugh/10553476)

[Notes/commentry on presentation from Heather Leeson](http://textontechs.com/2014/04/state-of-the-map-us-building-community/)

---

Engaging the OSM Community: A NYC Government Perspective - Colin Reilly


[Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1J3NkOv0PRGPBqdLNbB6JZd8qM1Yda_YlUiCvvxqpVtI/edit#slide=id.p)

[NYC Local Law 11](http://www.nyc.gov/html/doitt/html/open/local_law_11_2012.shtml)


---

Meeting in Person: why, How, and What's Next - Kathleen Danielson 

[Slides](https://speakerdeck.com/kathleenld/meeting-in-person-why-how-and-whats-next)

---

Simulating Cities with OpenStreetMap and OpenTripPlanner Analysis - Kevin Webb


[Slides](https://www.dropbox.com/s/ojb4wa28rqv2of7/sotm_modeling.pdf)

----

CartoDrop: secure mapping and reporting over Tor - Nick Dorion


[Slides](http://www.slideshare.net/NicholasDoiron/cartodrop-secure-mapping-and-reporting-over-tor)

---


Start your own maptime! - Lyzi Diamond


[Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Uge9O_R_T8pFbN4szxQ4iBQxpskeWT183IBvqtnt1DE/edit#slide=id.p15)

---

[HOT's BOF (birds of a feather) session](https://hackpad.com/HOT-BOF-SotM-US-CnlzFvBzbVT)


---


Birds of a Feather - Exporting OSM into GIS - Andrew Wiseman

[Notes](https://gist.github.com/aawiseman/10679009)

[A. Wiseman's blog post on converting OSM Data into Shapefiles using QGIS and JOSM](http://everygoodusernameistaken.tumblr.com/post/52805666711/exporting-openstreetmap-roads-to-shapefile)

---



Capturing Local Knowledge of Urban Food Resources Using OSM - Sterling Quinn


[Philly Fresh Food Map](http://www.geovista.psu.edu/phillyfood/)

---

US Bicycle Route System Mapping - Steve All 

[National Corridor Plan of US Bicycle Routes](http://www.adventurecycling.org/routes-and-maps/us-bicycle-route-system/national-corridor-plan/)

---

Open Data for Resilience: OSM for Disaster Risk Management - John Crowley 


[Open Data for Resilience Initiative, the Field Guide](https://www.gfdrr.org/ODRIFG)

[Open Data for Resilience Initiative by WorldBank, About](https://www.gfdrr.org/opendri)


---


Designing OpenStreetMap - Nicki Dlugash


[slides, pdf](http://nickidlugash.com/DesigningOSM.pdf)

[notes, pdf](http://nickidlugash.com/DesigningOSM-notes.pdf)

---

Processing OpenStreetMap into Vector Tiles - Dane Springmeyer 

[slides, pdf](https://www.dropbox.com/s/9b15snlzu3r0z5o/sotm-us-2014-dc-springmeyer.pdf)

---

Optimizing the osm2pgsql/mapnik toolchain - Paul Norman

[slides, pdf](http://www.paulnorman.ca/files/osm2pgsql-performance.pdf)

---

Inside the Eye of a HOT Activiation - Dale Kunce 

[slides](http://americanredcross.github.io/presentations/SOTMUS_2014/)

---

Geo Tools For First Responders - Richard Welty

[slides](http://www.slideshare.net/nfgusedautoparts/geo-tools-for-first-responders-sotm-us-2014)

[Full Slides](http://www.slideshare.net/nfgusedautoparts/geo-tools-for-first-responders-sotm-us-2014-full-version)

---

Running Your Own Rendering Infrastructure - Seth Fitzsimmons

[slides](https://speakerdeck.com/mojodna/running-your-own-rendering-infrastructure)

---

I imported Chicago - Ian Dees 


[user testing on osm.org and iD](http://www.smartchicagocollaborative.org/cutgroup-6-openstreetmap-editor/)

---

Addresses, One County at a Time - Toby Murray 

[slides, pdf](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/1475575/OSM/Addresses_one_county_at_a_time.pdf)

---

Open Data and the City - Renee Sieber

[Quality Evaluations on Canadian OpenStreetMap Data, mentioned in Sieber's presentation (pdf)](http://rose.geog.mcgill.ca/ski/system/files/fm/2014/tenney.pdf)


---

Reviews/Recaps:


[benbhsu's notes/diary from Day One at SOTMUS2014](http://www.openstreetmap.org/user/benbhsu/diary/21645)


[benbhsu's notes/diary from Day Two at SOTMUS2014](http://www.openstreetmap.org/user/benbhsu/diary/21653)


[Peter Batty's review of another great State of the Map conference](http://geothought.blogspot.fr/2014/04/report-on-another-great-state-of-map.html)

[Recap from Gretchen Peterson of Boundless](http://boundlessgeo.com/2014/04/state-of-the-map-us/)

[Thoughts from Jacques Tardie](http://jacquestardie.org/State-of-the-Map.html)
